OK.
And now I want to show you an example of someone who didn't even really stay on topic at all.
Here's one called exceptional technologies.
Interesting how they went with the casual question or casual introduction.
They pretty much stay on topic for maybe one section.
Yeah it looks like they're saying that oh we've attached an RFP that's a request for a proposal and
they say right here you know you're messaging it doesn't actually require messaging and cries GPS location
it doesn't require US location work shift management.
That is true.
Web based back end yes this is true in bits and pieces.
I don't know what that means but then right here you'll just notice immediately none of this has anything
to do with the project you're trying to get me on Skype to talk to me.
It has nothing do with my project.
Looking at your video testimonials.
Nothing to do with my project.
Giving me a PTF a direct contact details your customer nothing nothing nothing.
So pretty much all of this right here probably is just copy and pasted this right here probably was
written by someone.
This was copy and paste it.
OK so these are good examples of a range you will expect.
You know this person is 100 percent custom 100 percent everything they're saying has to do with your
project that's a good thing.
This guy is right in the middle.
And this is a good example of a team that just did a very poor job.
You can tell that they clearly missed some of the features and the majority of it is copy and paste
it.
You also notice some weak points right here they said they attach an RFP they didn't actually attach
an R.
P.
Ok so now that you've looked at the ratio of copied and pasted information to custom information there
are some other things that you can look for.
One thing I like to look for is how well they construct their sentences.
We can go back to screenies example here very very poorly constructed.
I talked previously about camelback and you'll notice that that really just means that they're randomly
capitalizing things is just a sign that they're not particularly good at English or they're not particularly
good at communication.
Typically I like to look at the way that sentences are constructed and a lot of people think like oh
OK well you're going to give a massive disadvantage to a company that doesn't speak native English and
that is somewhat true and somewhat not true.
I mean you have to keep in mind that a lot of these estimates are going to come from countries that
don't speak perfect English which is perfectly fine.
But you have to also be aware of the fact that some of them can speak English better and some of them
are worse.
And this is going to be reflected in how well you can communicate with them.
Sure.
You might think this is cosmetic details like for instance if they accidently capitalize things but
when you are communicating with them and something goes wrong.
Any tiny little misunderstanding can become a problem.
It can slow your project down and it can cost you money.
So I always suggest looking over people's messages look for sections where they describe something that
you don't understand what they mean or where they get off the point or where they tell you things that
are just not important.
These are all good indications of later on when you're working with them.
How helpful are they going to be.
How easy are they going to be to communicate with.
So we can just literally take any example on here.
You know this is an example of an Indian firm it's probably in the middle.
Their communication skills are ok not terrible not great.
We'll just take this paragraph for right here.
We're a team of professional developers who hold expertise in open source development projects and double
space can certainly help you figure out the best possible development approach after having discussion
with you.
Nothing terrible right here.
I'm not sure what this double space was maybe.
I think it's ticky tack but you'll notice that like this is a massive run on sentence.
We do agree in agile application development practices.
I don't know if that means they like it or they actually do it and then they say and hence have implanted
processes that enables us to enables us deliver cost effective and timely projects.
Ok so what you can tell here is you can get the gist of what they're saying but you'll notice that it's
also kind of confusing and they might be using incorrect vocabulary in the future.
That could be confusing especially to someone who's new to this project.
That means you might be spending a lot of time kind of clearing yourself through the bushes and trying
to figure out what exactly they are talking about.
So and here is an example of a bid from ideal I.T. techno Private Limited if anybody's worked in India.
This is something that almost all Indian companies do.
They always have private limited bill and all these different attachments to the end of their thing
and then it's almost as if they just use an adjective generator for their name or are they just stuck
a bunch of things together.
They don't even realize what techno means.
The rest of the world they think it's a cool way of abbreviating technology.
Anyway so here's an example of one that not only has poor communication but pretty much scores poorly
on all of the things that I'm telling you to look for in terms of staying on topic right here.
We are an I.T. firm really having a good track of developers.
What is a good track of developers working in Android iPhone you know Photoshop blah blah blah blah
blah.
None of this has anything to do with are talking about.
Didn't mention Twilio didn't mention S.M. mass.
What does each team have to do anything.
We're not building an iPhone app.
Photoshop What does that have to do with anything.
Right off the bat they just literally copy and pasted nonsense.
Now how well can you understand them.
Here's a here's a paragraph you should read.
We have undergone with the description of assuming that just means.
Read it under God in a process of understanding it given in your project details for Android iPhone
taxi.
OK it's a mobile application that sends text messages.
It has nothing to do with iPhone or Android platforms.
It's supposed to work on literally any project to manage drivers Caml backing.
We will give you live I am chat with app.
I don't even know what that means.
So users can chat frequently.
Also we will implement push notifications to notify on specific time with message.
That is all just jibberish.
I don't think that they're talking about how we had asked for the ability to send messages to drivers
through the system but drivers shouldn't be communicating with themselves and they wouldn't be doing
it through the administration panel.
Neither would we.
So they don't even know what that is.
So here's a good example of you can see their communication skills right off the bat when in doubt throw
it out.
That's a great example great kind of credo to follow when you're looking at proposals.
If you can't understand their well thought out proposal then you're not going to understand them when
something goes wrong and you're not going to understand them when you have to change requirements and
they ask question.
So one other thing that I want to talk about.
You should look for is how well in their proposal do they demonstrate that they understand what you're
building.
OK so I'll give you a good example and a bad example.
A good example would be.
Here's an example of a person who actually ended up working with.
So the person introduces themselves and they say that you know they'd be happy to make it.
They right off the bat said we've created critter's small demo of your functionality you requested they
explain a problem that they had but they clearly understand that these are issues and then get around
it right off the bat.
This person just kind of got it right like they understood that we wanted estimated out in sections.
This is one of our screener questions.
Have you noticed this that I think only three of the 18 actually figured this out and gave us an estimate
in three sections so he got that correct.
Everything on here is custom.
There's no copy and paste and information and they just built a version of it right off the bat just
to prove that they knew what it was supposed to do and what it should do.
That's a great thing.
And as you can see here they created a system pretty much on their own so that's usually a great thing
you can tell that you know they brought up some issues.
They built a small version of it.
They clearly thought about what they're trying to build.
They've read the entire thing.
They know that it's going to be in sections.
This is a very very good proposal.
Now an example of a bad proposal will go back down to our friends at ideal Tecno.
They clearly do not understand what this project is about.
So that's the last thing you want to look for is how well do they understand what it's about.
We've already talked a little bit about this paragraph that shows that they clearly do not understand
the messaging requirements in the messaging space specifications for this application.
But you can also just notice that pretty much all of this is just garble.
We are having expertise with server side apps with Android iPhone apps plus ph B web admin my secret
database.
OK that's fine.
Again it's not an Android iPhone app I don't know why they thought that.
What does it matter where you build the Administration panel and direct information with developer interaction
with developers on Skype.
If this is any indication of how they communicate I cannot imagine that being able to communicate directly
with their developers is helpful.
And then they give us a link to all these apps that have nothing to do with what we're trying to build.
So this obviously is just a bad bad bad proposal.
They score poorly on every single thing but relevancy is what we're talking about right this moment
and relevancy understand showing that they understand what it is very poor we have expertise with location
based apps.
This is not a location based app.
So look for these red flags.
Honestly if they are incorrectly labeling the app if they're using overly generic information or terms
to describe it if they are not using custom tacks they might be afraid of describing it correctly and
it might be the case that they don't actually know what they're building.
These are all things you should look for.
So these guys clearly don't know what they're building Nic up here.
Clearly it does.
You can tell pretty quickly just from reading a couple of paragraphs that some of the other people that
they do actually know what it is.
OK so those are three things that I think you should look for when going over the language.
Don't obviously set too a strict rule.
Make sure that you know only if you don't have a lot of proposals then you need to be a little bit more
lax.
You've a lot of proposals you can be very picky but pay attention to things like how much message fatigue
are they signaling to you.
That means that they're busy they're building over the place and they haven't thought about your project
a lot they haven't thought about your project that could mean that they're going to be problems in the
future look for their ability or inability to communicate.
If you think that they have bad communication skills now but they'll improve once you're working on
a project you are sadly mistaken.
They are going to be worse when you're working on a project.
And the other thing that you should look for is how well do they demonstrate that they understand your
application.
If they build you a small version of it that is fantastic because they can just show you and even even
highlighting issues that they might have or problems they might see.
Those are all good things.
And then on the other side if you have people using incorrect language describing it as something that
it's not talking about sections that don't exist that's a very bad thing.
That's that's a red flag you should literally throw this one out.
Don't even read the price.
It's not worth looking at.
The last thing I want to leave you with that you should look for another red flag is if you look for
people who are trying to get you off the platform.
It's funny we had a previous lecture on getting you should use a strategy to get them off of the platform.
But if they are trying to get you off the platform that is actually a negative sign.
It means that they don't want to spend time on your proposal and they think that if you connect with
them on Skype then they can use that as a prequalification technique to see that you're interested then
they're going to dedicate time to it.
That's not what you want.
That's it.
It's just a very cheap trick that a lot of freelancers use.
They also think that if to get you off Skype you off the platform they can change the terms or say things
that they wouldn't be allowed to say on here.
So if you notice people doing that you can quite literally just look for control and go for Skype.
So right here this guy wants me to share his Skype ID with him.
We have this is actually IDEAL I.T. techno.
They want us to get on skype very quickly.
Here's acception air wants me to get on Skype for a quick introduction and they all immediately want
me to connect with them.
You know it you'll notice this very quickly.
Nick did not do that.
And even up here Paul Matthews did.
He looks like he wants me to get on skype.
And here we go we can discuss more on Skype.
That's generally a bad thing.
Try to avoid that.
Try to get them on here.
And if they want you get on skype.
Keep that as a red flag in the back of your mind but you're more than capable of handling them if you
ask them to get on Skype.
OK.
In the next lecture we're going to talk about response rate or how that is important and what you should
think about that and how you should use that as a way to judge your proposals.
All right so in the next lecture.